What a privilege we have to be associated with Jehovah's forward moving child-like organization.
But when any vehicle is on the move, we expect the landscape to be constantly changing.
And because the chariot is on the move, our personal landscape may change a number of times from place to place or assignments to assignments.
So in line with our comments this morning, we want to deal with this question.
What can help us to embrace changes and actually enjoy them?
Are we going to answer that question by looking at the life of one outstanding early Christian
who experienced a number of unexpected assignments?
If you'd like to turn your Bible to the book of Acts, we're introduced to him in Acts chapter 6.
He was one of seven men who were appointed to an administrative position to resolve a serious dispute that threatened to cause division.
His name was Philip.
Now all seven, including Philip, were selected because according to verse 3, they were well reported on and full of spirit and wisdom.
Now these men took charge of the situation and because they were full of spirit and wisdom, they were able to resolve the problem peacefully.
Now, is it possible that Philip and perhaps the other six wondered whether this assignment was going to be a Pamela thing?
Especially as administration looked as though it was necessary with the large increase up to 5,000 disciples had already joined at that point.
Well, whatever they might have been thinking, their situation took a sudden turn in a different direction.
If you look at Acts chapter 8 and verse 1, we'll see what happened.
Acts 8 verse 1 says, on that day, great persecution arose against the congregation that was in Jerusalem.
All except the apostles were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria.
So for Philip, suddenly all his certainties in life changed as he fled from Jerusalem.
From an able administrator, he became known as Philip the evangelizer.
Now, while we may think in terms of evangelizing being an enthusiastic preacher, often that term is used in the scriptures to describe someone who goes to work on a sign territory or unworked areas.
While other scattered Christians witnessed to the Jews, we find Philip went in a different direction.
We look at verse 5 and we can see this displayed on our map.
Now, Philip went down to the city of Samaria and began to preach the Christ to them.
Here he was in a Jewish community going from Jerusalem to Samaria to preach.
He was obviously a skilled teacher because verse 6 relates.
The crowds with one accord were paying attention to what Philip said, and he had outstanding results we can see in verse 12.
But when they believe Philip, who was declaring the good news of the kingdom of God and of the name of Jesus Christ, both men and women were getting baptized.
Now, this is quite remarkable considering that Jews generally showed disrespect to the Samaritans.
It must have been so refreshing to the Samaritans to see that Philip ignored these social distinctions.
Surely, Philip must have made some very close friends there in Samaria.
And maybe at that point, he thought to himself, this is a nice place to be. This is where I'd like to settle and bring up my family.
But that's not what Jehovah had in mind. His next assignment is described in verse 26.
However, Jehovah's angels spoke to Philip saying, get up and go to the south to the road that runs down from Jerusalem to Gaza.
This is a desert road.
Now, did Philip say, I like Samaria. I'd like to settle here. Perhaps I could have a day or two just to think this over.
Well, not as Philip's reaction in verse 27, it was immediate. It simply said with that, he got up and went.
Where to? Well, the landscape changed from a cool mountain region with magnificent views to a journey along a desert road.
While we cannot be specific as to the exact road he took, we can see from the map that it was quite a journey from Samaria to Gaza.
And keep in mind that Philip was given no explanation as to why he was being reassigned, but he was about to find out.
Somewhere along the road, he encountered an Ethiopian who was headed home after worshiping in Jerusalem.
And the purpose for Philip's move became crystal clear, as we see in verse 29.
So the Spirit said to Philip, go over and approach this chariot.
Now, again, we see Philip's teaching skills coming to the fore.
As he approached the chariot, spoke to the Ethiopian, explained to him certain verses from Isaiah chapter 53.
Such was his clear explanation. The Ethiopian was baptized in a short time.
Now, incidentally, according to the study note, the Greek name for Ethiopia means region of burnt faces.
This experience revealed another aspect of Philip's godly wisdom. He showed no racial partiality when preaching the good news.
Now, after baptizing the Ethiopian, there was no time for Philip to linger.
Next assignment, verse 39.
When they came up out of the water, Jehovah's Spirit quickly led Philip away, and the unit did not see him anymore.
So he led him away, but took where? Verse 40 tells us.
Philip, however, found himself in Ashtod.
Now, when you read that verse, it says he found himself in Ashtod.
The wording perhaps suggests that he didn't have a clear idea where he was headed, but instead allowed Holy Spirit to guide him.
However, Ashtod was not his final destination.
Verse 40 says, and he went through the territory, and kept on declaring the good news to all the cities until he got to Caesarea.
So we see from the map. We don't know whether he actually reached Gaza or not, but we see from the map that he journeyed somewhere up the coast all the way to his final destination in Caesarea.
Why Caesarea?
It was a prosperous place to live. It was a seaport by the Mediterranean Sea, nice warm climate, very nice indeed. Good place to settle.
But these weren't really the reasons why Philip chose to settle and bring up a family in Caesarea,
likely he settled there because it was an important international crossroads.
It allowed him to continue to have a productive ministry, and certainly there was a Gentile community based in Caesarea.
Now the reason for that conclusion is because of what is stated in Acts chapter 21, then verse 8 and 9.
This is what said about Philip 20 years later in 56 CE where he is settled in Caesarea.
Acts 21 verse 8 says, the next day we, that's Paul and Luke, left and came to Caesarea, and we entered the house so Philip, the evangelizer, who was one of the seven men, and we stayed with him.
So what a blessing Philip must have been in the local community as an elder and a family head with his four single daughters all active in the ministry when you consider his experience of preaching throughout the territory and that association from the early days with the governing body.
Now despite his family responsibilities, his reputation was Philip the evangelizer.
And you notice almost in passing that the verse draws attention to the fact that he was one of the seven.
Drawing attention to his past experience and service in Jerusalem tells us something about Jehovah.
We may be asked to move from place to place and our personal landscape may change, but how reassuring to know that Jehovah keeps a record of our past activity as he did with Philip and that's why he had it recorded there.
So an answer to our question, what can help us to embrace personal changes and enjoy them?
Well, even though changes may come through the charity organization rather than directly through an angel or Holy Spirit as was the case with Philip, once we discern Jehovah's hand in our assignment, don't hesitate to get on with it.
And if that is our attitude, then that's how we maintain joy.